1-Pot Chickpea Shakshuka
Savory, flavorful shakshuka with chickpeas made in 1 pot in 30 minutes! A
hearty yet healthy dish suitable for breakfast, lunch, or dinner!

Author: Minimalist Baker

4.80 from 229 votes

PREP TIME: 5 minutes

COOK TIME: 25 minutes

TOTAL TIME: 30 minutes

Servings: 6 (2/3-cup servings)

Freezer Friendly 1 month
Does it keep? 4 Days

Ingredients
SHAKSHUKA
1 Tbsp olive or avocado oil
1/2 cup diced white onion or shallot
1/2 medium red bell pepper (chopped)
3 cloves garlic, minced (3 cloves yield ~1 1/2 Tbsp)
1 28-ounce can crushed tomatoes
1-3 Tbsp tomato paste
2-3 tsp coconut sugar or maple syrup (or omit if avoiding sugar)
Sea salt to taste
2 tsp smoked or sweet paprika
1 tsp ground cumin
2 tsp chili powder
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1 pinch cayenne pepper (optional)
1 pinch each cardamom and coriander (optional)
1 ½ 15-ounce cans cooked chickpeas (rinsed and drained)
4-5 whole kalamata or green olives (optional // pitted and halved)
FOR SERVING optional
Lemon wedges
Bread (gluten-free or this recipe or flatbread)
Fresh chopped parsley or cilantro
Rice or cauliflower rice
Brown rice pasta (I love Trader Joe's organic brand with quinoa)

Instructions
1. Heat a large rimmed metal or cast iron skillet over medium heat. Once hot, add olive oil, onion,
bell pepper and garlic. Sauté for 4-5 minutes, stirring frequently, until soft and fragrant.
2. Add tomato puree or diced tomatoes, tomato paste, coconut sugar, sea salt, paprika, cumin, chili
powder, cinnamon, cayenne pepper (optional), cardamom, and coriander (optional). Stir to
combine.
3. Bring to a simmer over medium heat and cook for 2-3 minutes, stirring frequently.
4. Add chickpeas and olives (optional). Stir to combine. Then reduce heat to medium-low and
simmer for 15-20 minutes to allow the flavors to develop and marry with the beans.
5. Taste and adjust seasonings as needed, adding more cumin or paprika for smokiness, cayenne for
heat, coconut sugar for sweetness, cardamom and coriander for earthiness (or slight curry flavor),
chili powder for smoke/heat, or olives for saltiness and to balance the tomato flavor. Cook longer,
as needed, to develop flavors.
6. Serve as is or with bread, pasta, or rice. I loved this alongside a kale salad, and it went especially
well over gluten-free pasta! Garnish with fresh lemon juice, additional olives, and cilantro or
parsley for extra flavor (optional).
7. Store leftovers covered in the refrigerator up to 4 days or in the freezer up to 1 month. Reheat on
the stovetop until completely warmed through.

Notes
*Nutrition information is a rough estimate calculated without additional toppings or sides.
*Recipes makes ~4 cups total.

Serving: 1 two-third-cup servings Calories: 211 Carbohydrates: 36.3 g Protein: 8.8 g
Fat: 5.1 g Saturated Fat: 0.7 g Trans Fat: 0 g Cholesterol: 0 mg Sodium: 182 mg
Fiber: 8.8 g Sugar: 13.6 g
Did you make this recipe? Taking a moment to leave a review helps our community! 

https://minimalistbaker.com/1-pot-chickpea-shakshuka/