Best Instant Pot Chicken Stir Fry - Fit Foodie Finds
Your favorite takeout can now be made completely in the Instant Pot with clean ingredients! This Instant Pot Cashew Chicken Stir Fry is perfect for weeknight dinners or meal prep -- and it's ready to serve in 45 minutes or less.

4.53 from 67 votes

Prep: 25 minutes
Cook: 15 minutes
Total: 40 minutes                                                               

Fat: 15g
Carbs: 27g
Protein: 26g

Yield: 6 servings

Ingredients
1/2 cup low sodium soy sauce or tamari
1/3 cup maple syrup
1 tablespoon minced garlic
2 teaspoons fresh grated ginger
2 teaspoon white rice vinegar
1.5 lbs. boneless skinless chicken breast, cut into 1-inch chunks
1.5 tablespoons olive oil
2 large red peppers diced
4 cups broccoli florets
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/4 cup water
1 cup raw whole cashews

Instructions
1. First, prepare stir fry sauce. In a medium bowl, mix together soy sauce, maple syrup, minced garlic, grated ginger, and white rice vinegar. Set aside.
2. Next, prepare chicken breast by slicing into 1-inch chunks.
3. Turn on the Instant Pot's sauté feature. Heat 1.5 tablespoons of olive oil.
4. When olive oil is fragrant, add diced chicken breast and cook for 1 to 2 minutes to brown.
5. Turn off the sauté feature and add stir fry sauce. Toss.
6. Cover Instant Pot and turn the valve to seal. Cook on manual high pressure for 4 minutes. The Instant Pot should take a few minutes to build pressure, but eventually it will count down from 4 minutes.
7. While the chicken is cooking, prepare vegetables. Dice 2 large red peppers and cut broccoli into bite-sized florets. Set aside.
8. Next, prepare a slurry. In a small bowl, whisk together 1/4 cup of water and 1 tablespoon of cornstarch. Set aside.
9. Once the Instant Pot beeps, quick release to release the steam that has built up.
10. Remove top and add chopped veggies, the slurry, and raw cashews to the Instant Pot and toss everything together.
11. Turn on the Instant Pot's sauté feature and cook for around 3 minutes or until sauce has thickened.
12. Turn off the sauté feature and immediately cover the Instant Pot for around 5 minutes to let the veggies steam and fully cook.
13. Remove lid and assess how cooked the veggies are. If they need to continue cooking, put the top back on to continue steaming. Remember, no one likes overcooked veggies!
14. Serve over your favorite grain.

Tips & Notes
Veggies: you can always turn the saute feature back on and cook your veggies that way if steaming is not working well for you. We tested pressure cooking the veggies on manual high for '0 minutes,' but found that the veggies came out just a little too cooked. However, you always have the option to do this as well if you prefer your veggies more cooked.

Nutrition information does not include a grain.
Nutrition Facts
Calories: 355kcal | Carbohydrates: 27g | Protein: 26g | Fat: 15g | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 17g

https://fitfoodiefinds.com/instant-pot-cashew-chicken/