Microwave Ropa Vieja
Recipe courtesy of Food Network Kitchen
This version of ropa vieja ("old clothes")-a Cuban dish of shredded beef in a piquant tomato sauce-has a deep, slow-cooked
flavor we would never expect from a microwave. You don't have to brown the steak first; just let it bubble in the sauce until
it's tender enough to shred. Serve it over rice to soak up the sauce.
Level: Easy
Total: 1 hr 10 min
Prep: 10 min
Inactive: 10 min
Cook: 50 min
Yield: 4 servings

Ingredients:
1 small onion, sliced 1/4 inch thick
3 cloves garlic, minced
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1/4 teaspoon dried oregano
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
One 14-ounce can crushed tomatoes
1 cup low-sodium beef broth
1/2 cup jarred roasted red peppers, sliced
2 teaspoons soy sauce
1 dried bay leaf
1 1/4 pounds flank steak, cut along the grain into
3-by-1 1/2-inch strips
1/3 cup pimento-stuffed olives, halved
3 tablespoons roughly chopped fresh cilantro
leaves

Directions:
1

Toss the onion, garlic, cumin, oregano, oil, 1/2 teaspoon
salt and a few grinds of black pepper in a microwavesafe 4-quart bowl. Tightly cover the bowl with plastic wrap;
cut a small slit in the center with the tip of a paring knife to
vent excess steam. Microwave on high (at 100 percent power) until the onions are soft and
translucent, about 4 minutes. (See Cook's Note re cooking times.) If the onions aren't
cooked through, cover and microwave again in 30-second increments. (When removing the
plastic wrap, be careful to avoid the hot steam.)

2

Add the tomatoes, beef broth, red peppers, soy sauce, bay leaf, 1/2 teaspoon salt and
some black pepper. Stir, then nestle in the steak. Tightly cover the bowl with 2 pieces of
plastic wrap; cut a small slit in the center. Microwave on high (at 100 percent power) for 20
minutes. Carefully remove the plastic wrap (the bowl will be very hot), stir and cover again.
Microwave on high (at 100 percent power) for another 20 minutes. Uncover the bowl, and
let cool for 5 minutes.

3

Remove the steak with a slotted spoon onto a cutting board. (It will not be fall-apart
tender at this stage but should be shreddable.) Using two forks, shred the steak; return it
to the bowl, and stir in the olives. Tightly cover the bowl with plastic wrap, cut a small slit in
the center and microwave at 100 percent power for 5 minutes. Let the ropa vieja sit,
covered, for 5 minutes. Stir in the cilantro, and serve with rice.

Cook’s Note
The cooking times in this recipe are for an 1,100-watt microwave.

Cooked rice, for serving
Copyright 2014 Television Food Network, G.P. All rights reserved.

https://www.foodnetwork.com/recipes/food-network-kitchen/microwave-ropa-vieja-3362995